
# Tata Data Visualisation: Empowering Business with Effective Insights 
## Here is the background information for the task
An online retail store has hired me as a consultant to review their data and provide insights that would be valuable to the CEO and CMO of the business. The business has been performing well and the management wants to analyse what the major contributing factors are to the revenue so they can strategically plan for next year.

The leadership is interested in viewing the metrics from both an operations and marketing perspective. Management also intends to expand the business and is interested in seeking guidance into areas that are performing well so they can keep a clear focus on what’s working. They would also like to view different metrics based on the demographic information that is available in the data.

A meeting with the CEO and CMO has been scheduled for next month and you need to draft the relevant analytics and insights that would help evaluate the current business performance and suggest metrics that would enable them to make the decision on expansion.

## Problem Statement

Create the visuals around four of the questions that the CEO and CMO have requested using power BI:
 
**Question 1**

The CEO of the retail store is interested to view the time series of the revenue data for the year 2011 only. He would like to view granular data by looking into revenue for each month. The CEO is interested in viewing the seasonal trends and wants to dig deeper into why these trends occur. This analysis will be helpful for the CEO to forecast for the next year.

**Question 2**

The CMO is interested in viewing the top 10 countries which are generating the highest revenue. Additionally, the CMO is also interested in viewing the quantity sold along with the revenue generated. The CMO does not want to have the United Kingdom in this visual.

**Question 3**

The CMO of the online retail store wants to view the information on the top 10 customers by revenue. He is interested in a visual that shows the greatest revenue generating customer at the start and gradually declines to the lower revenue generating customers. The CMO wants to target the higher revenue generating customers and ensure that they remain satisfied with their products.

**Question 4**

The CEO is looking to gain insights on the demand for their products. He wants to look at all countries and see which regions have the greatest demand for their products. Once the CEO gets an idea of the regions that have high demand, he will initiate an expansion strategy which will allow the company to target these areas and generate more business from these regions. He wants to view the entire data on a single view without the need to scroll or hover over the data points to identify the demand. There is no need to show data for the United Kingdom as the CEO is more interested in viewing the countries that have expansion opportunities.


### Steps followed 

- Step 1 : Load data into Power BI, dataset is a csv file.
- Step 2 : Data cleaning: Before we begin the analysis, make sure that the data is cleaned properly. You have noticed that the data contains some returns to the store which are provided in negative quantities and there are unit prices which were input in error. You will need to perform the following steps to clean this data.
   * Create a check that the quantity should not be below 1 unit
  * Create a check that the Unit price should not be below $0
- Step 3 : Created a new feature called 'Revenue' using the 'quantity' and 'unit price' data. 
- Step 4 :Plotting:
  * #### Qn 1 #### 
  Here we need to create a line chart and place the invoice date on the x-axis and the revenue on the y-axis. In order to calculate the revenue, we need to multiply Quantity by Unit Price. Once the revenue field is calculated, we can use it to view the trend of revenue.Make sure to set the granularity of the data to each month and only provide data for the year 2011.
  * #### Qn 2 #### 
  In order to attempt this question, we need to create a side-by-side bar chart. There would be two bars for each country which would represent the revenue and quantity for each region. Please make sure that you add the filter to only show the top 10 countries by revenue. We also need to ensure that you exclude the United Kingdom from the visual.
   * #### Qn 3 #### 
   We need to create a column chart or a vertical bar chart where each bar would represent the revenue generated by the customers. We need to add a filter to only display the top 10 customers. The customers will be identified from the field “CustomerID”. Make sure that the customers who do not have any customer IDs are excluded from the visual. Finally, sort the customers in descending order based on the total revenue generated.
    * #### Qn 4 #### 
  We need to create a map chart here as the map chart would allow the CEO to view the entire map of the world and it will highlight each country and show the total number of units sold or the name of the country. You would need to filter out the United Kingdom from the data as it is not needed in this visual. Make sure that the name of the country or the total units sold is visible for each country. 

# Insights

The data shows that the revenue in the first 8 months is fairly
constant as the average revenue generated for these 8 months is around $685k. The increase
in revenue starts in the month of September, where the revenue increases by 40% over the
previous month. This trend continues till the month of November where it reached 1.5 million
USD, the highest during the entire year. The data is incomplete for the month of December,
therefore, no conclusion can be drawn from it, unfortunately. This analysis shows that the retail
store sales are impacted by the seasonality which usually occurs in the last 4 months of the
year.

The second visual shows how the top 10 countries which have opportunities for growth are
performing. This data does not include the UK as the country already has high demand and I’ve
been told you’re more focused on the countries where demand can be increased. The analysis
shows that countries such as the Netherlands, Ireland, Germany and France have high volumes
of units bought and revenue generated. I would suggest that these countries should be focused
on to ensure that measures are taken to capture these markets even more.


The third analysis has been performed on the top 10 customers who have purchased the most
from the store. The data shows that there is not much of a difference between the purchases
made by the top 10 customers. The highest revenue generating customer only purchased 17%
more than the 2nd highest which shows that the business is not relying only on a few customers
to generate the revenue. This shows that the bargaining power of customers is low and the
business is in a good position.


Finally, the map chart shows the regions that have generated the most revenue compared with
the regions that have not. It can be seen that apart from the UK, countries such as Netherlands,
Ireland, Germany, France and Australia are generating high revenue and the company should
invest more in these areas to increase demand for products. The map also shows that most of
the sales are only in the European region with very few in the American region. Africa and Asia
do not have any demand for the products, along with Russia. A new strategy targeting these
areas has the potential to boost sales revenues and profitability.
